This command line parser provides a list of commands and some
built-in functions, please use 'MANPAGE', 'HELP' and 'SYNTAX' to get
extensive information about these capabilities.

Additional You can use the build-in function 'GENDOCU' to generate a
complete or parts of the user manual.

To read the parameter of a command, a compiler (command line processor
CLP) is applied. To see the regular expressions (lexems) and the
corresponding grammar, please use the build in functions 'LEXEM' and
'GRAMMAR'.

The return/condition codes of the executable and the reason codes of the
different commands can be reviewed with the built-in function 'ERRORS'.
See <<appendix-returncodes>> and, if available, <<appendix reasoncodes>>
for the meaning of the used condition and reason codes.

The command line executer (CLE) uses an owner management in order to
separate the settings for different clients and a property management
for each command. If problems occur, you can activate a trace and
manage all configuration settings.

For each command execution you can define the owner and environment
variables which are managed over the configuration file.

The default trace file is 'stdout'. If you activate the trace before a
trace file is defined, the trace will be printed on the screen.

Last but not least you can determine license, version and other
information about the program.

This is the ${__BUILD__} build version of the FLAMCLEP.

.USED ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

 * HOME                     - to determine the home directory on UNIX/WIN
 * USER                     - to determine the current user id on UNIX/WIN 
 * program_CONFIG_FILE      - the configuration filename (default is '$HOME/.flcl.config' on UNIX/WIN or '&SYSUID..FLCL.CONFIG' on mainframes)
 * program_DEFAULT_OWNER_ID - the default owner ID (default is 'de.limes')
 * owner_program_command_PROPERTY_FILENAME - To overrule default property file names
 * path_argument            - to overrule the hard coded default property value
 
Environment variables can be set from the system or in the program
configuration file with the build-in function 'SETENV'. Especially on
mainframe systems the configuration file is an easy way to define
environment variables. Additional on host the DD name STDENV is
supported. The DD:STDENV allows you to define the program_CONFIG_FILE,
program_DEFAULT_OWNER_ID, LANG and other environment variables for
example direct in your JCL (FLCL is a sample program name):

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 //STDENV   DD *
 FLCL_CONFIG_FILE=GLOBAL.FLCL.CONFIG
 LANG=de_DE.IBM-1141
 HOME=/u/hugo
 USER=hugo
 /*
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Often it will be useful to have a dedicated environment per user on
mainframes. In such case it makes sense to define the environment in a
dedicated file for each user.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
 //STDENV   DD DSN=USER.ENVIR(&SYSUID.), DSP=SHR
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Beside all the environment variables managed by CLE you can also set all
properties as environment variables to overrule the hard coded default
values with CLP. If a property defined as environment variable and over
a property file, then the value in the property file overrules the
settings over the environment. The environment variable name for each
property are builded by the rules below:

 * convert all letters to upper case
 * replace all dots '.' by underline '_'

To get a list and help for all properties pleas use the built-in
function 'genprop' to generate property files. The properties can be
defined per owner, per program and general. The owner specific
definition overrules the program specific definition and the program
specific definition overrules the general definition. Examples:

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
CONV_READ_TEXT_ENL2LF=OFF #in general the 0x15 to 0x25 conversion is off#
HUGO_FLCL_CONV_READ_TEXT_ENL2LF=ON # for owner 'hugo' the conversion is on#
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

The value string behind the sign (including the comment) will be used as
supplement for the command line processor. Aliases are not supported in
this case. You can only define properties for the main argument. If a
string must be enclosed with apostrophe, please don't use double
quotation marks, because these are used additional if a new property
file build based on the environment settings. 

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
FLCL_ICNV_FROM='IBM-1141'         # this is the best solution 
FLCL_ICNV_TO=UTF-8                # "UTF-8" could result in errors
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

See <<appendix-properties>> for the current property file content.

.FILENAME MAPPING

All filenames used by CLEP are additionally mapped based on the rules
below:

 * The character '+' is replaced with the string "<HOME>"
 * On ASCII system also '~' can be used as abbreviation for "<HOME>"
 * Each value enclosed with angle brackets (<>) are replaced with the
   corresponding environment variable. If the environment variable not
   defined the replacements below are still possible:
 ** <SYSUID> - Current user id in upper case
 ** <USER>   - Current user id (case sensitive)
 ** <CUSER>  - Current user id in upper case == <SYSUID>
 ** <Cuser>  - Current user id in title case
 ** <cuser>  - Current user id in lower case
 ** <HOME>   - Replaces with the users data directory, if this not
               available the replacements below are done:
 *** On UNIX with /home/<USER>
 *** On USS with /u/<USER>
 *** On ZOS with <SYSUID>
 * DD names on mainframes must be prefixed with "DD:"
 * Data set names on mainframes are always full qualified
 * Path names on mainframes must contain a least one slash '/'
 * Data set names on USS must start with //
 ** Full qualified names with HLQ must enclose in apostrophes "//''"
 ** If apostrophes are not used the SYSUID is prefixed as HLQ
 * Normal file names on other platforms could be relative

To use a "<" or "+" or "~" as a part of a filename the character must be
specified twice.

Beside this rules you can also use the replacement technologies of your
shell, but on some platforms $HOME, $USER or something like this are not
available, for such cases the possibilities above are implemented.

This file name mapping is provided over the library CLEPUTL and should
also be used for file names managed by the commands supported with this
program.
